what's what is your role in this how did
you get involved yeah so I work at a
think tank called new consensus and so
ongoing political discourse about the
green New Deal is misleading in two
important respects one it was not
written by Alexandria Ocasio Cortes in
short this is a good thing because that
means it's not her fault - there's a
lively debate about whether or not this
law would cost ten trillion dollars or a
hundred billion dollars whether or not
the astronomical sums people are
attaching to what his estimates could be
justified and the amount this bill would
cost the United States of America is
zero because legally this bill does
absolutely nothing aside from expressing
a sentiment if you haven't formally
studied political science this may
surprise you but actually in the United
States many of the most important laws
have only expressed a sentiments well
important if you're someone like me who
cares about human rights and progress of
civilization in 2009 the United States
passed a law regretting the conquest
oppression enslavement and genocide of
the indigenous peoples means a lot to me
it's just a sentiment there's absolutely
nothing about that law that's enforced
it has no consequences it didn't cost
the taxpayer any more than the cost of
printing it on paper
Bill Clinton very memorably passed a law
a federal law that's on the books
apologizing for the unethical way in
which the United States annexed the
island of Hawaii
it's a very complex convoluted episode
of history that can't easily be summed
up as conquest or genocide nevertheless
very immoral regrettable thing and that
law states that the government United
States America regrets it it is enough
ecology expressed in law didn't cost the
taxpayers $1 it's just a sentiment it is
mind-blowing that this debate is going
on with all sides apparently not
recognizing that the green New Deal is
absolutely nothing more than an
expression of sentiment and it's
possible that the authors of the green
New Deal who are again not aoc herself
that they're unaware of this because
they are rank amateurs you know I
understand you won't take my word for it
so here is a quick screenshot from the
New York Times highlighted there in
pinkish red the resolution is
non-binding so even if Congress approves
it nothing in the proposal would become
law hunger for young people people of
color to be activists but once it
becomes like moves out of that space
everyone's like okay now the real adults
will come and fix it which actually
means get out here the white man you
know if you read the bill in American
politics you say something as a bill
before it's been passed into law if you
read it carefully what it is actually
expressing is that the United States
recognizes certain things that's just
like Bill Clinton passing a law saying
the United States recognizes the
terrible suffering of the indigenous
people or the native people of light
nothing wrong with that but it's very
false and misleading to suggest that
this would cost ten trillion dollars ten
billion dollars or even ten million
dollars this is absolutely nothing more
than a contest over what we in the
political science trade call motherhood
statements now where does that phrase
come from it comes from the tendency of
some politicians at some points in the
past to get up on stage and give
speeches extolling the importance of
motherhood reaching out the audience's
saying you know what really makes
America great as the mothers you know
where would we be today without
motherhood speechifying on something
where there is really nothing to be won
and nothing to be lost where there are
no consequences for moral grandstanding
that is precisely what the green new
deal is now the mean discovery I made in
researching for this video was that it's
quite false to accuse a OC of having
paid a private research group to write
this on her behalf that was my initial
concern and put up some screenshots here
various people some left-wing some
right-wing some just concerned observers
have suggested that there is a moral
quandary surrounding who got paid how
and why to write the green new deal
no point one even if it were true that
AOC paid a consultancy firm to write
this law for her in American politics
that wouldn't just be legal that would
be normal if someone like myself gets
elected and I pay a lawyer to help me
write something incorrect legalese
there's nothing remarkable that almost
every major politician in the last
hundred years in the United States has
paid someone to write his or her
speeches for them quite often other
people write legislation whether in
broad outline or in detail or both that
is like doing the organizing the people
power part of it there's another aura
called justice Democrats that
essentially works with electeds and
candidates to do it and then new
consensus we develop the policy for the
green new deal now maybe that should be
illegal maybe there should be oh you
could have a very interesting referendum
or constitutional resolution that made
politicians should have to write their
own speeches and write their own laws
but currently they're the states nobody
expects that and that's norm
so to start with that controversy is a
bit of a tempest in a teapot but what I
really discovered new in the research of
this video is that the direction of the
Association there is 180 degrees wrong
the author of the green New Deal whose
fingerprints are all over it in terms of
its specific wording its tone its tenor
everything about this is a woman named
Rihanna gun right
and um mysteriously she suddenly has
been getting less and less positive
press from her own colleagues because
she took the dramatic step of endorsing
Elizabeth Warren not Bernie Sanders
whereas obviously aoc endorsed Bernie
Sanders in recent democrat party
competition for who might run for the ex
president but that was up until quite
recently rihanna gun-rights name has
very much been front and center as the
face of and the author of the green New
Deal and if you look up the interviews
she gave it's very clear that what
really happened was this green New Deal
pre-existed the political phenomenon of
aoc rising to power so without getting
into details new consensus is this
somewhat questionable political
consultancy firm that is now credited as
authoring the green new deal and is
employing Rihanna gun right to author
the green New Deal however the authors
at new consensus the sunrise movement
and the Justice Democrat organization
they all existed prior to and quite
independent from AOC and her meteoric
rise to both power and fame so it's not
the case that this was a o'seas idea
it's not the case that she authored it
it's not the case that she hired this
firm new consensus to write it for her
those are false but plausible
assumptions I understand why people
whether they're left-wing right-wing
moderate I understand why people would
assume that given the role a OCS today
in being you know the public face for
announcing propounding the great huge
evil
but you really had nothing to do with
her and from my perspective that is a
very good thing I am profoundly
committed to ecology if you were gonna
write this law that calls for a 100
percent elimination of the use of fossil
fuels and say let me let me taste like
we could eliminate tobacco 100 percent
people can stop smoking we could
eliminate alcohol as a beverage 100
percent we could eliminate the eating of
meats the drinking of Dairy Milk we
could eliminate all those things that
I'm presenting you know what's really
hard to do it's really hard to replace
all of the 18 wheel trucks that the
United States of America relies on with
some kind of truck that doesn't burn any
fuel at all you know what's really hard
to do is to go city by city coast to
coast and find out where people's
electricity comes from and generate all
of that electricity with zero emissions
right I'm sorry but if you if you want
to use the word impossible as opposed to
possible the fantasy of a vegan utopia
it's actually much more possible and
attainable than than any of the dreams
that are set down in writing in the
green New Deal all right the only
problem with having a society that
consumes zero meat is that people are
addicted to meat it's the same problem
with having a society that smokes your
cigarettes all right but I am profoundly
committed to ecology I was interested
and committed to environmentalism
ecology long before I became vegan was
really as a consequence of that you know
have to take responsibility for own
actions in this life and it recognized
the exponential difference it makes the
difference you can make by being vegan
personally but being a part of the vegan
movement all right if it's less when I
look at this law the first thing that
was obvious to me is that the people who
wrote it were amateurs and when I looked
at the rhetoric that's used to sell this
law to the public it was very very clear
to me that these people are painfully
ignorant in both politics
and the science of economics so you may
have noticed a Oh see herself Bernie
Sanders himself everyone who is
following the PlayBook set down by
Rihanna gun right and Daman drummer they
all repeat this rhetoric about World War
two that all the United States needs to
do is to be willing to get itself into
debt to the same levels that happened
during World War two show the same
commitment that the United States had to
making thousands of aircraft and
thousands of tanks to defeat the Nazis
in World War two and then this problem
can be overcome and they present this
without even the merest
back-of-the-envelope calculation showing
that for example you can go city by city
and replace all the eighteen wheel
trucks and replace all of the power
plants that that's possible that
achieving this hundred percent goal is
possible at any price or what that price
would be or how that compares to
building a bunch of tanks well there is
no there's no calculus it's just a moral
assertion that if the United States were
as committed as that were to world war
two and we're willing to go into debt to
the same level there won't do I got bad
news for you right now the United States
is in debt to the same extent that you
were during World War two and that's why
it's mind-blowing to me that all these
people if they kind of put on these
performances time and time again but
they never actually show you the charts
they never show you numbers they never
do the math right if you look up the
current United States GDP to federal
debt ratio you're above 105 106 it's
only gonna get worse under Donald Trump
the absolute pinnacle of indebtedness in
World War two tell you what a hundred
and twelve point seven percent so you're
already within a rounding error of being
as close to bankruptcy as deeply in debt
as you World War two and as you know
there's no particular emergency in the
United States of America you're already
at the breaking point without trying to
say conquer Western Europe Japan
and etc you're not taking on any such
well you know got a few wars in the last
10 or 20 years but in case you weren't
paying attention
you were already now in a situation just
as dire and desperate as you were
economically and politically in the
United States of America at the peak of
your debt crisis created by World War
two so this is the rhetoric and its
really worth pointing out the rhetoric
already is broken now when I said before
it's kind of natural and normal for
someone like a OC to pay for a
scriptwriter
to pay for a researcher to pay for a
consultancy front firm to draft
legislation that's what they're paying
for
they're hoping that someone like Brianna
done right with her impressive zoning
degree from the University of Oxford
they're hoping that someone that is
going to provide them with youth useful
rhetoric of this kind but Rihanna Gunn
right is a nincompoop the people who
were in charge of this particular very
newly created organization new consensus
all right these were not people who were
in any way qualified or prepared to make
the move from popular street activism
just say agitation for politics to
actually writing legislation and it was
immediately strikingly obvious to me in
reading the the law itself the bill
itself that these were people whose
experience was entirely in making bold
proclamations on Twitter and they
weren't even people who spend time
reading legislation let alone writing
legislation there is in fact a very good
reason why street activists turn to kind
of hardened experienced professionals
when they get involved with the legalese
and the details of writing law that's
actually actionable that's actually
implementable that can make a difference
in the real world and that isn't just a
declaration of good intentions of pious
wishes for the world to be a better
place that isn't just full of
aspirations about racial equality and
economic equality by the way if you have
read it that's most
of what the green util is about it
reflects the personal philosophy of
Rihanna gun right and the thematic
interests of them on drummer it doesn't
have a whole lot to do with ecology
alright it's quite disappointing in that
respect
also it certainly doesn't reflect years
of careful research into how to in an
economically sustainable way bring about
a transformation or a transition from a
gasoline reliant economy to an economy
that doesn't rely on gasoline that would
be the sort of area that someone like
AOC probably should pay a consultancy
firm probably should pay researchers
probably should pay experts to do
millions of the horse of research she
probably should be playing people to
provide her with you know detailed
guidelines in rhetoric and to draft laws
for her the problem is she paid the
wrong people the problem is she remained
in bed width by which I mean politically
entangled with a bunch of amateurs who
just happened to be linked to the
Justice Democrats and I'm sorry the
sunrise movement prior to her rise to
fame so the good news is I don't blame
AOC for what's wrong with the green New
Deal I hope for her this is kind of
going to be a learning moment that she
moves on from where she recognizes you
know if you pay peanuts you work with
monkeys like there's a reason why when
you go to Washington DC you stop dealing
with people who are just
well-intentioned amateurs who have some
kind of street cred for organizing
protests connected to the Justice
Democrats and you turn to and talk to
people who really have some kind of
profound depth of experience with the
ways that politics work
it's really tragic that at the beginning
of a Oasys career she came into power
surrounded by a bunch of amateurs who
from my perspective just sincerely did
not know the difference between making
bold proclamations on Twitter and
writing legislation that's going to make
a real difference in the real world I'd
love to say this is just the beginning
of a OCS career and she's gonna have
lots of other opportunities to make a
big difference the world but we don't
know that we don't know how many times
she'll be able to hold up a bill and say
that it's in the front page of every
newspaper we don't know how many times
she's gonna be able to capture the
public interest or the sympathy of
people within the elite the
institutional support to really take an
idea and run with it through the halls
of power so AOC I hope this isn't your
last chance this was your first chance
and with all due respect you blew it